# catharus_microbiome

Title: Intestinal microbiota of Nearctic-Neotropical migratory birds more variable over	time than across host species


Abstract: ABSTRACT

Seasonal migration of Nearctic-Neotropical passerine birds may have profound effects on the diversity and abundance of their host-associated microbiota.  Migratory birds inherently experience variable environments and diets throughout the course of the annual cycle that, along with recurrent biological events such as reproduction, may significantly impact their microbiota. In this study we characterize the intestinal microbiota of four closely related species of migratory Catharus thrushes at three time points of their migratory cycle: during spring migration, on the summer breeding territories and during fall migration. Using observations replicated over three years, we determined that microbial community diversity of Catharus thrushes was significantly different across distinct time periods of the annual cycle, and community composition was more similar within than across year. We recovered two phyla, Cyanobacteria and Planctomycetota, that are not commonly described from birds to be in relatively high abundance in specific years. Elevated alpha diversity in the summer birds compared to either migratory period indicate that birds may harbor a reduced microbiota during active migration.  Finally, we found insignificant variation in the community composition of the microbiota between host species. This study contributes to the growing number of observations of microbiota in wild birds throughout varying ecological conditions and reveals potential axes across which an animal’s microbial flexibility adapts to variable environments and recurrent biological conditions throughout the annual cycle.  
